docs: add existing content DOC-1065 (#2267)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/getting-started/cluster-profiles.md

---
sidebar_label: "Cluster Profiles"
title: "Cluster Profiles"
description: "Spectro Cloud Palette Cluster Profiles"
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 30
tags: ["getting-started"]
---

> Cluster profiles are composed of layers using packs, Helm charts, and custom manifests to meet specific types of

Reviewer: This is a great overview but what is that makes cluster profiles so useful? Maybe it's their delerative nature that allows users to visually see and understand what makes up a k8s cluster? We are missing the content that explains why this concept is so powerful to the user. We answer the what, but not the why.

One thing to consider, take a peek at the [slide deck template icons](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1b8d67gEKXDLRL6G0dGtrBgMe3kXOkqcL/edit#slide=id.p94), specifically slide 72 - 79 maybe that's a better visual to help articulate the value by seeing more layers with examples?

Author: I did some work on this page as directed. I've kept the diagram which shows the different kinds of cluster profiles, but added a diagram from slide 79 in the page under the Packs section as it showcases lots of different technologies.

---
sidebar_label: "Cluster Profiles"
title: "Cluster Profiles"
description: "Spectro Cloud Palette Cluster Profiles"
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 30
tags: ["getting-started"]
---

Cluster profiles are the declarative, full-stack models that Palette follows when it provisions, scales, and maintains
your clusters. Cluster profiles are composed of layers using packs, Helm charts, Zarf packages, or cluster manifests to
meet specific types of workloads on your Palette cluster deployments. You can create as many profiles as needed for your
workloads.

> Once you create your profiles, the provide you with a repeatable deployment process for all of your development and

Reviewer: I think something got dropped in this sentence by accident 🙈

Author: Oops! Fixed this up now.

  layers form the infrastructure for your cluster.

- _Add-on_ profiles are exclusively composed of add-on layers. They usually do not contain infrastructure components and
  are instead designed for reusability across multiple clusters and multiple projects within a tenant. Since they
  provide the flexibility to configure clusters based on specific requirements, _add-on_ profiles can be added to
  _infrastructure_ profiles to create what we call a _full profile_.

- _Full profiles_ combine infrastructure packs with add-on layers. By adding layers, you can enhance cluster
  functionality. For example, you might add system apps, authentication, monitoring, ingress, load balancers, and more
  to your cluster.

The diagram below illustrates the components of these profile types and how you can build on infrastructure layers with
add-on layers to create a full cluster profile. You can also create separate add-on profiles to reuse among multiple
clusters.

![A flow diagram that shows how you can add layers to an infrastructure profile to create a full profile.](/getting-started/getting-started_cluster-profiles_cluster-profiles.png)

## Packs

> Palette provides packs that are tailored for specific uses to support the core infrastructure a cluster needs and add-on
> packs to extend Kubernetes functionality. Each pack you add to a cluster profile is considered a layer in the profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packs are the smallest component of a cluster profile. Each layer of a cluster profile is made up of a specific pack. 
Palette provides packs that are tailored for specific uses to support the core infrastructure a cluster needs. You can also use add-on packs, or create your own custom pack to extend Kubernetes functionality.
```
Added a bit more context at the intro so that the information flows a bit smoother when reviewing the diagram.

> The diagram below illustrates some of the popular technologies that you can use in your profile layers. Check out the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram below illustrates some of the popular technologies that you can use in your cluster profile layers. Check out the
```
